---
title: "The Base Rate Fallacy"
tags: []
id: "base-rate-fallacy"
date: 2024-01-22
---




Imagine I am paying you \$5 to guess what subject I was studying at
university.

-   It might help for you to make a guess right now! It might be even
    more helpful to note down what information you use to inform your
    guess.

... ... ... ... I studied computer science. What did you guess? Based on
what information? The last time I asked someone from my university that
question, they guessed that I was studying philosophy, because "I looked
like I was studying something in the humanities."

This is a common way for people to guess. Even though this person had
only looked at me on the outside and knew nothing else about me, he used
this information of
[representativeness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representativeness_heuristic)
to guess my subject. Given that he knew I was attending a technical
university, he could have guessed any engineering degree and would have
had a higher chance of being right. Had he made his guess based on which
subject is the most popular at my university (computer science) he would
have been right.

Human reasoning developed in small tribes, in which you would have
already known all relevant statistics like these on a visceral level.
You would not have made a wrong guess like this because you would have
already known the person. In the 21st century, not only is the world
larger than we can wrap our heads around, but the internet has made
information cheap, and it might be worth
[reading](https://wikipedia.org/).

So the next time you are making a large important decision on little
data,
[perhaps](https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/03/24/should-you-reverse-any-advice-you-hear/)
ask yourself if you already know a more reliable source of truth here,
or if you might get better data through 5 minutes of googling.

The more advanced version of this includes acquiring information before
it becomes relevant. Or noticing that [you already know everything you
need](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/L32LHWzy9FzSDazEg/motivated-stopping-and-motivated-continuation).
Another good habit is to stop reading people's prose and instead
interpret data on your own.

Optional Exercise:
------------------

Open *<https://ourworldindata.org/>*, choose a topic you do not know
enough about and note things you find surprising in the graphs. If
something is [sufficiently
surprising](https://www.lesswrong.com/s/zpCiuR4T343j9WkcK/p/5JDkW4MYXit2CquLs)
ask yourself how this might point to even larger gaps in your
understanding of the world.
