---
title: "TODO "
tags: []
id: "this is id"
created: "2023-09-17"
---

[TODO]{.todo .TODO} [[blog]{.smallcaps}]{.tag tag-name="blog"} {#section-1}
==============================================================

(Noting that these are privileged problems, but it\'s seems important to
acknowledge ones feelings. Not really worth publishing.) I feel like for
me personally, it has been kinda frustrating that the EA/Longtermist
movement has actually succeded at recruiting so many smart people
recently. Personally I feel sort of annoyed, when I read guzeys article,
because I feel like dude I got all of the high level picture right. I
got convinced I should work on this. I joined a reading group to discuss
stuff. Lots of my friends have actually sort of made it. But now
everything is turning more professional etc.. I also feel I lost when it
comes to things like working on interpretability. I was sort of on Board
with people like Richard Ngo etc. saying stuff. I just never got myself
too far into the whole interp stuff. I feel like while I am kinda
capable, I am not super smart+ adhd etc. I feel like a lot of people
have probably a similar feeling. I feel annoyed because I felt like in
my rationality group I was the one who sort of was like \"I will go for
the really ambitious thing\" etc.. I never actually went for not going
to university etc. I also feel like it is in fact a lot harder for me to
work on things that I feel not super intrinsically motivated by and I
feel frustrated when I see other people working on things. I feel
frustrated because I feel sort of right at the edge of where I could be
useful (regular bycatch tihng) I hope I will look back at this in 5
years and think to myself: \"Oh dear tassilo had things figured out and
knew this would be the sort of place where he ends up.\" I feel
frustrated by the funding thing, because I feel if I was getting a job I
will have to sorta choose to either sort of half-heartedly pursue that,
or I will ... I am also frustrated because it feels like everything that
would gain me career capital for AI stuff would put me in a position
where I will do bad things. Things like Elizabeth is saying of \"put
yourself in a position where doing the moral thing is easy\" on the one
hand rings true, on the other hand it rings true in the sorta way that
it\'s the easy thing.

I feel super frustrated by my bachelors thesis and how this is evidence
of how in the end my bachelor will totally not be useful for signaling,
because I should have put the time into just doing things that give me
actual skills, because my incentives are aligned and I can focus on 1
thing instead of taking 6 courses in 1 semester 2 of which I actually
find useful! I feel bad because I have all of this habit stuff that I
unlearned. I only now feel like I have a better framework to think about
the habit stuff. I feel bad, because I feel like I should put out all of
these posts for people to read. I am annoyed by not being able to write
very clearly yet.

Sometimes I do look back at my achievements so far, but then I always
get caught up in this comparison thign and how I am not paul christiano.
I feel like it is annoying, because even if I acknowledge these things
are true, I feel like my actual problem is not solved. I feel a little
bit overwhelmed by having a girlfriend who also has adhd. I feel like
this might just be too much for both of us. I worry that I just need to
be too \"loving and kind\" in a way to her that is too exhausting for
me. Sometimes I just feel it is too much. I feel bad about wanting to do
exactly the kinds of things like writing this journal thing that would
not be well regarded as a post on lw. I feel frustrated. I feel like
time is running too fast and I am not ggoing to get the writing done. I
haven\'t looked at the worst yet!
